#summary how to contribute to the CORE project

= Contributing to CORE =

*Project homepage*: [http://cs.itd.nrl.navy.mil/work/core/index.php]

*Mailing list*: [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/mailman/listinfo/core-users] You can contribute by participating in discussions on the mailing list. Do you know the answer to a question someone posted there? Feel free to jump in with the answer.

*Coding style*: see the [Hacking] wiki page for coding standards. All patches and code contributions must adhere to these guidelines.

*Source control repo*: private SVN repo at NRL with public nightly snapshots here: [http://downloads.pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/source/nightly_snapshots/]

*How to report bugs*: email the [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/mailman/listinfo/core-dev development mailing list] or enter the bug yourself in the bug tracker: [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/list]

*How to submit patches*: enter a new issue on the [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/list bug tracker] and attach a patch, or email the [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/mailman/listinfo/core-dev development mailing list]. All submissions must use the same license as the rest of the project, the [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php New BSD License]. Also see the below attribution guidelines.

*Attribution*: for larger patches or rewrites, add your name to the `authors:` list at the top of the source file. Also include the license statement `See the LICENSE file included in this distribution.` and a Copyright (c) statement. Do not use `All rights reserved.` Do not add to the authors list for small modifications.