#summary CORE wiki home

= CORE Wiki =

This is the CORE wiki. It features tips and tricks and other bits of information that haven't made it into the [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/core-html/ CORE manual] ([http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/core_manual.pdf PDF]) yet.

Click [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/w/list here] or the [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/w/list Wiki] tab at the top of each page for a list of all wiki pages.

== Background Info ==
 * [Screenshots]
 * [FAQ]: Frequently Asked Questions
 * [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/core-html/ CORE manual] 
 * [Contributing]: contributing to this project

== Installation == 
 * [Quickstart]: quickly get up-and-running with CORE
 * [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/core-html/ CORE manual]
 * [NamespaceKernels]: notes on good/bad Linux kernels 
 * [Linux]: Linux virtualization and CORE
 * [EMANE]
 * [SDT3D]

== Help and Support ==
 * [FAQ]: Frequently Asked Questions
 * [Tips]: a collection of tips
 * [Troubleshooting]
 * [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/mailman/listinfo/core-users mailing list] / [http://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fpf.itd.nrl.navy.mil%2Fpipermail%2Fcore-users%2F&oq=site%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fpf.itd.nrl.navy.mil%2Fpipermail%2Fcore-users%2F search the mailing list]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/list bug tracker]
 * [ReleaseNotes] release notes and known issues

== Development ==
 * Development [Roadmap]
 * [Contributing]
 * [Hacking]: coding style
 * [API]: CORE messaging RPC
 * [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/mailman/listinfo/core-dev developer mailing list] / [http://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fpf.itd.nrl.navy.mil%2Fpipermail%2Fcore-dev%2F&oq=site%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fpf.itd.nrl.navy.mil%2Fpipermail%2Fcore-dev%2F search the core-dev mailing list]
 * [TclTkOverview]: brief guide to Tcl/Tk code


== Citations ==

Academic publications that use CORE are requested to cite one of the following publications:
 * J. Ahrenholz, T. Goff, and B. Adamson, Integration of the CORE and EMANE Network Emulators, Proceedings of IEEE Military Communications Conference 2011 (MILCOM), pp. 1870-1875, November 2011.
 * J. Ahrenholz, Comparison of CORE Network Emulation Platforms, Proceedings of IEEE Military Communications Conference Conference 2010 (MILCOM), pp. 864-869, November 2010.
 * J. Ahrenholz, C. Danilov, T. Henderson, and J.H. Kim, CORE: A real-time network emulator, Proceedings of IEEE Military Communications Conference 2008 (MILCOM), pp. 221-227, November 2008.