#summary How to get CORE up and running quickly.

= Quickstart =

CORE 4.0 packages are available for Ubuntu 10.04 and Fedora 12/13. If you want to run a different Linux distribution, make sure the kernel is at least 2.6.27 to support network namespaces.

== Step 1. Install CORE packages ==

Get the Ubuntu (deb) or Fedora (rpm) package for your architecture from here:<br>
[http://downloads.pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/packages/4.0/linux/]

Use your package manager to automatically install dependencies:<br>
`gdebi-gtk core_4.0-0ubuntu1_i386.deb` <br>
`su; yum localinstall core-4.0rc2-1.i686.rpm --nogpgcheck`<br>

Virtual networks usually require routing software. CORE automatically builds configs for the [http://www.quagga.net Quagga] routing suite. For wireless networks, CORE will generate OSPF MANET MDR configs, available from [http://cs.itd.nrl.navy.mil/work/ospf-manet/ here].
`sudo apt-get install quagga` or `gdebi-gtk quagga-mr_0.99.16mr1.0_i386.deb`<br>
'su; yum install quagga` or `su; yum localinstall quagga-0.99.16mr1.0-01.i386.rpm --nogpgcheck`<br>

== Step 2. Start the CORE services ==

== Step 3. Run CORE ==


= FreeBSD Quickstart =

Follow these quickstart instructions only if you want to use the FreeBSD version of CORE. The Linux version is now recommended and much easier to install.
 
== Step 1. Install FreeBSD 8.1 ==
[ftp://ftp.freebsd.org/pub/FreeBSD/releases/i386/ISO-IMAGES/8.1/]<br>
[ftp://ftp.freebsd.org/pub/FreeBSD/releases/amd64/ISO-IMAGES/8.1/]<br>
Download and burn the ISO image to a blank DVDR using your CD writing software. Boot the DVD-ROM on your target system and follow the on-screen instructions. 

== Step 2. Install prerequisite packages ==
`# pkg_add -r tk85 sudo bash` <br>

Consult the [http://hipserver.mct.phantomworks.org/core/manual/Required-Software-for-FreeBSD.html manual] for more details. <br>
 
== Step 3. Download and install the CORE packages ==
[http://downloads.pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/packages/4.0/freebsd/core-8.x-amd64-4.0.tbz core-8.x-amd64-4.0.tbz]<br>
[http://downloads.pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/packages/3.5/freebsd/core-kernel-7.x-20090505.tbz core-kernel-7.x-20090505.tbz] (47 MB)<br>
(Note that a newer FreeBSD 8.1 CORE kernel is not yet available; follow the instructions in the [http://hipserver.mct.phantomworks.org/core/manual/Installing-from-Source.html manual] to compile your own custom kernel.)
 [http://downloads.pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/packages/3.5/freebsd/quagga-manetmdr-0.99.9_5.tbz quagga-manetmdr-0.99.9_5.tbz] (3 MB)<br>
(Note that a newer Quagga MANET MDR 0.99.16 package is not yet available; follow the instructions in the manual to compile Quagga from source.)
`# pkg_add core-8.x-amd64-4.0.tbz`<br>

== Step 4. Reboot and start the CORE daemons ==
`sudo /usr/local/etc/rc.d/core onestart` 

== Step 5. Run the CORE GUI from X11 ==
`sudo core &` 

= OpenVZ Quickstart =

Follow these quickstart instructions only if you want to use the OpenVZ version of CORE. The Linux version is now recommended and much easier to install.

== Step 1. Install CentOS Linux 5.5 ==
[http://isoredirect.centos.org/centos/5/isos/i386/]<br>
[http://isoredirect.centos.org/centos/5/isos/x86_64/]<br>
Download and burn the ISO image to a blank DVDR using your CD writing software. Boot the DVD-ROM on your target system and follow the on-screen instructions. 

== Step 2. Install prerequisite packages ==
[http://download.fedora.redhat.com/pub/epel/5/i386/epel-release-5-3.noarch.rpm EPEL repo] and [http://wiki.openvz.org/Quick_installation#yum_pre-setup OpenVZ]<br>
 `# yum install bridge-utils iproute tcl.i386 tk.i386`<br>
 `# rpm -Uvh epel-release-5-3.noarch.rpm`<br>
 `# yum install ebtables`<br>
 `# cd /etc/yum.repos.d` <br>
 `# wget http://download.openvz.org/openvz.repo` <br>
`# wget http://download.openvz.org/RPM-GPG-Key-OpenVZ` <br>
`# rpm --import RPM-GPG-Key-OpenVZ` <br>
`# yum install ovzkernel vzctl`<br>
<br>
edit `/etc/grub.conf` to give your new OpenVZ kernel a name other than CentOS<br>
edit the `/etc/sysctl.conf` and `/etc/sysconfig/selinux` files as described on [http://wiki.openvz.org/Quick_installation this page] <br>
edit `/etc/vz/vz.conf` and change `DISK_QUOTA=no` and `IPV6="yes"`<br>
disable host firewalls with `chkconfig ip[6]tables off`<br>
<br>
Consult the [http://hipserver.mct.phantomworks.org/core/manual/Required-Software-for-Linux.html manual] for more details. 

== Step 3. Download and install the CORE packages ==
[http://downloads.pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/packages/4.0/linux/core-openvz-4.0-1.i386.rpm core-openvz-4.0-1.i386.rpm] (697 KB)<br>
[http://downloads.pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/packages/3.5/linux/core-root-3.5-1.i386.rpm core-root-3.5-1.i386.rpm] (208 MB)<br>
`# rpm -ivh core-openvz-4.0-1.i386.rpm` <br>
`# rpm -ivh core-root-3.5-1.i386.rpm` <br>
 
== Step 4. Reboot and start the CORE daemons ==
`sudo /etc/init.d/core start` 

== Step 5. Run the CORE GUI from X11 ==
`sudo core &` 

= Tips =
 * Once you see the CORE GUI, you can try loading one of the sample configuration such as `sample1.imn`
 * CORE requires the Tcl/Tk packages, either version 8.4 or 8.5. You may see warnings about specific package versions on FreeBSD, these may be safely ignored.
 * For system requirements and tips on the install process, visit the [http://hipserver.mct.phantomworks.org/core/manual/Prerequisites.html Prerequisites] page of the [http://hipserver.mct.phantomworks.org/core/manual/index.html CORE manual]; also refer to [http://www.freebsd.org], [http://www.centos.org], [http://www.openvz.org]


= Other Options =
 * *VMware image*<br>*Pros:* everything is already set up for you; one file to download.  *Cons:* poor performance; for quick evaluation only.<br>*vcore-3.5.zip* (1.3 gb) or *vcore-3.5-linux.zip* (850 mb)<br>[http://downloads.pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/vmware-image/]<br>You can run CORE from within this pre-built VMware virtual machine with minimal setup. See the included vcore.txt in the zipfile for login information.  See also the [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/wiki/Troubleshooting troubleshooting page] for tips on configuring your kernel to avoid clock skew problems in the CentOs guest. _Note that you may experience decreased performance and timer issues, and there is the added confusion of virtualization within virtualization. If you decide to run in this mode, we suggest using SSH with X11 forwarding into the VCORE virtual machine, to mitigate the decreased performance of the VMware virtual display._

 * *FreeBSD 4.11* <br>lighter-weight virtual machines, but packages no longer provided
   # first install *4.11-RELEASE-i386-disc1-gnome.iso* (563 mb)<br>[ftp://ftp-archive.freebsd.org/pub/FreeBSD-Archive/old-releases/i386/ISO-IMAGES/4.11/]
   # then install from source or use the older *core-freebsd411-3.3.sh* (19 mb)<br>[http://downloads.pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/core/installer-complete/]

 * *Build from source* <br>To build a CORE machine *from scratch*, including patching and compiling your own CORE kernel, see the [http://hipserver.mct.phantomworks.org/core/manual/Installing-from-Source.html Installing from Source] page of the [http://hipserver.mct.phantomworks.org/core/manual/index.html CORE manual].