#summary Changelog and notes about CORE releases.

Refer to the NamespaceKernels and CustomKernels pages for info on good/bad kernels and supported networking features.

= 4.3 =
CORE 4.3 was released on 3/7/12.

The high-level changes since version 4.2 are:
 * EMANE 0.7.2 and 0.7.3 support
 * hook scripts: customize actions at any of six different session states
 * Check Emulation Light (CEL) exception feedback system
 * added FTP and XORP services, and service validate commands
 * services can flag when customization is required
 * Python classes to support ns-3 simulation experiments
 * write state, node X,Y position, and servers to pycore session dir
 * removed over 9,000 lines of unused GUI code
 * performance monitoring script
 * batch mode improvements and --closebatch option
 * export session to EmulationScript XML files
 * basic range model moved from GUI to Python, supports 3D coordinates
 * improved WLAN dialog with tabs
 * added PhysicalNode class for joining real nodes with emulated networks
 * fixed the following bugs:<br>50, 75, 76, 79, 82, 83, 85, 86, 89, 90, 92, 94, 96, 98,<br>100, 112, 113, 116, 119, 120

Known issues with 4.3
 * CORE will segfault under Ubuntu 11.10 with Tcl/Tk 8.5.10. There is a known bug in the tk-8.5.10 package, the workaround is to uninstall it and install tk-8.5.11 from [http://www.ubuntuupdates.org/tk8.5 here]; see [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/detail?id=90 bug #90]
 * the libimg-1.2.4_8 port under FreeBSD 9.0 causes icons in the CORE GUI to appear in black; there is an error showing gif files; see [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/detail?id=108 bug #108]
 * the vcore-4.3.zip (md5sum: b10758ede92db7fa8cf1fa6537d88fbb) had a problem where the UUID listed in the VirtualBox XML did not match the vmdk disk file. This was corrected on 3/26/12 (md5sum: 2282036b2cd6416159c70165e824c36d).

= 4.2 =
CORE 4.2 was released on 8/19/11.

The high-level changes since version 4.1 are:
 * EMANE 0.7.1 support<br>support for Bypass model, Universal PHY, logging, realtime
 * configurable MAC addresses
 * control interfaces (backchannel between node and host)
 * service customization dialog improved (tabbed)
 * new testing scripts for MDR and EMANE performance testing
 * improved upgrading of old imn files
 * new coresendmsg.py utility (deprecates libcoreapi and coreapisend)
 * new security services, custom service becomes UserDefined
 * new services and Python scripting chapters in manual
 * fixes to distributed emulation, linking tunnels/RJ45s with WLANs/hubs/switches
 * fixed the following bugs:<br>18, 32, 34, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49,<br>52, 53, 55, 57, 58, 60, 62, 64, 65, 66, 68, 71, 72, 74

Known issues with 4.2:
 * the CORE 4.2 source tarball fails to build on Fedora. <br>Fix this by changing this line in configure.ac: `AC_SUBST(libev_CFLAGS,)` to `AC_SUBST(libev_CFLAGS, [-I/usr/include/libev])`<br>This was due to an attempt to remove pkg-config as a dependency, but has been fixed in SVN and newer.
 * Fedora 15 does not add the hostname to the 127.0.0.1 localhost line of the `/etc/hosts` file, which causes CORE to print an error: "couldn't open socket: can't assign requested address" when the execute button is pressed.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/detail?id=39 issue 39] OSPF hellos become synchronized after 1 hr of running
 * [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/detail?id=56 issue 56] wait for services shutdown
 * [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/detail?id=63 issue 63] EMANE events not restricted to localhost lo device


= 4.1 =
CORE 4.1 was released on 1/5/11.

The high-level changes since version 4.0 are:
 * new icons for toolbars and nodes
 * node services introduced, node models deprecated
 * customizable node types
 * traffic flow editor with MGEN support
 * user configs moved from /etc/core/`*` to ~/.core/
 * allocate addresses from custom IPv4/IPv6 prefixes
 * distributed emulation using GRE tunnels
 * FreeBSD 8.1 now uses cored.py
 * EMANE 0.6.4 support
 * numerous bugfixes

Known issues with 4.1:
 * kernel hanging under Ubuntu 10.10 [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/detail?id=38 issue 38]
 * Tunnel node not implemented under FreeBSD [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/detail?id=37 issue 37]
 * OSPF hellos become synchronized after running emulation for about one hour [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/detail?id=39 issue 39]
 * CPU widget has been removed
 * Mobility tool has been removed
 * FreeBSD 8.1-RELEASE kernel warns "freed uma keg was not empty" and eventually crashes [http://code.google.com/p/coreemu/issues/detail?id=40 issue 40]
 * "no common network" error when reconnecting to a session having point-to-point links and trying to modify/delete these links
 * imn files made from older CORE versions not working in 4.1; see the [http://coreemu.blogspot.com/2010/11/node-types-and-services.html announcement about new CORE services]
 * `sample1.imn` hanging under FreeBSD 8.1 with Quagga MDR 1.0. On node7, the `vtysh -b` command is blocking waiting for ospf6d, which seems to be waiting for a lock



= 4.0 =
CORE 4.0 was released on 8/17/10.

Here are some of the high-level changes since version 3.5:
 * Python framework with Linux network namespace (netns) support (Linux netns is now the primary supported platform)
 * ability to close the GUI and later reconnect to a running session (netns only)
 * EMANE integration (netns only)
 * new topology generators, host file generator
 * user-editable Observer Widgets
 * use of /etc/core instead of /usr/local/etc/core
 * various bugfixes

Link to the [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/pipermail/core-users/2010-August/000209.html 4.0 release announcement].

= 3.5 =
CORE 3.5 was released on 9/15/09.

Link to the [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/pipermail/core-users/2009-September/000062.html 3.5 release announcement].

= 3.4 =
CORE 3.4 was released on 6/23/09.

Link to the [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/pipermail/core-users/2009-June/000019.html 3.4 release announcement].

= 3.3 =
CORE 3.3 was released on 3/11/09.

Link to the [http://pf.itd.nrl.navy.mil/pipermail/core-users/2009-March/000010.html 3.3 release announcement].