#summary Random tips and tricks relating to CORE, FreeBSD, and OpenVZ

Here we're collecting tips for CORE, FreeBSD, and OpenVZ. Please add your tips here.

= CORE tips =
tips for CORE that are not OS-specific

 * if you are drawing a wired topology where a router is connected to a hub/switch and PCs/hosts are connected to that, first draw the link from the router to the switch; this way the PCs/hosts will automatically have a default route to the router

 * the periodic Widgets may consume a lot of CPU cycles, pay attention to the CPU usage in the bottom right of the GUI, especially when running on VMware

== Python tips ==

To run CORE from your home directory:
 # mkdir ~/mycore
 # when building CORE, use `DESTDIR=~/mycore make install`
 # run cored.py or your Python script with: `PATH=~/mycore/usr/local/sbin:$PATH PYTHONPATH=~/mycore/usr/local/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/  python ~/mycore/usr/local/sbin/cored.py`


= FreeBSD tips =
tips for FreeBSD

 * 1. on FreeBSD 7.2 for the amd64 platform, running `pkg_add -r` causes the following error:
{{{
 Error: FTP Unable to get ftp://ftp.freebsd.org/pub/FreeBSD/ports/amd64/packages-7-stable/Latest/*.tbz: Not Found
}}}
 a workaround is to use `sysinstall` and choose `Configure` and `Packages` and choose your appropriate FTP/HTTP option, and select and install packages there
 * 2. when you run `pkg_add core-7.x-3.4.tbz` you receive the following messages:
{{{
pkg_add: warning: package 'core-7.x-3.4' requires 'bash-3.2.25', but 'bash-4.0.10_2' is installed
pkg_add: warning: package 'core-7.x-3.4' requires 'tcl-8.4.16,1', but 'tcl-8.4.19_2,1' is installed
pkg_add: warning: package 'core-7.x-3.4' requires 'tk-8.4.16,2', but 'tk-8.4.19_2,2' is installed
}}}
 This is OK, the warnings may be safely ignored. CORE is not particular about which version of bash, Tcl, or Tk are used. An earlier version number is used in the package file so that CORE will install on older FreeBSD 7.0 systems.
 * 3. Keep your FreeBSD packages up-to-date:
{{{
pkg_add -r portupgrade
# add 'core-kernel-7.x-*', 'core-7.x-*', 'quagga-*' to the HOLD_PKGS array
# in /usr/local/etc/pkgtools.conf
# use -ai to request confirmations
portupgrade -a -PP
}}}
 * 4. Installing X11 Xorg after a fresh install; reboot following these steps or follow instructions [http://www.freebsd.org/gnome/docs/faq2.html#q1 here]:
{{{
pkg_add -r gnome2
# now add gnome_enable="YES" to /etc/rc.conf
}}}

= OpenVZ tips =
tips for Linux

 # modify the standard OpenVZ config in `/etc/vz/vz.conf` (reboot to enable these changes):
  * DISK_QUOTA=no
  * IPV6="yes"
 # tips for installing OpenVZ on [Fedora]
 # radvd (IPv6 router advertisement daemon) in OpenVZ - before starting a scenario, on the host node run `sysctl -w net.ipv6.conf.default.forwarding=0`; this should turn off IPv6 forwarding for the new veth interfaces that are created inside the container. If you try to set IPv6 forwarding within the container, you receive an "Operation not permitted" error. Linux hosts will ignore router advertisements when forwarding is turned on.